planner: update the doc of non-prepared plan cache (#13284)
pingcap/docs: sql-non-prepared-plan-cache.md

## Restrictions

### Cache suboptimal plans

TiDB only caches one plan for a parameterized query. For example, the queries `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a < 1` and `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a < 100000` share the same parameterized form, `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a < ?`, and thus share the same plan.

If this causes performance issues, you can use the `ignore_plan_cache()` hint to ignore plans in the cache, so that the optimizer generates a new execution plan for the SQL every time. If the SQL cannot be modified, you can create a binding to solve the problem. For example, `CREATE BINDING FOR SELECT ... USING SELECT /*+ ignore_plan_cache() */ ...`.

### Usage restrictions

Due to the preceding risks and the fact that the execution plan cache only provides significant benefits for simple queries (if a query is complex and takes a long time to execute, using the execution plan cache might not be very helpful), TiDB has strict restrictions on the scope of non-prepared plan cache. The restrictions are as follows:

- Queries or plans that are not supported by the [Prepared plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md) are also not supported by the non-prepared plan cache.

> - Queries that contain complex operators such as `Window` or `Sort` are not supported.

Reviewer: 此处和中文原文不同，请确认：
- 不支持包含 `Window` 或 `Having` 的查询。

> - Queries that contain complex operators such as `Window` or `Sort` are not supported.

Author: ```suggestion
- Queries that contain complex operators such as `Window` or `Having` are not supported.
```

- Queries that contain three or more `Join` tables or subqueries are not supported.
- Queries that contain numbers or expressions directly after `ORDER BY` or `GROUP BY` are not supported, such as `ORDER BY 1` and `GROUP BY a+1`. Only `ORDER BY column_name` and `GROUP BY column_name` are supported.
- Queries that filter on columns of `JSON`, `ENUM`, `SET`, or `BIT` type are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE json_col = '{}'`.
- Queries that filter on `NULL` values are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a is NULL`.
- Queries with more than 200 parameters after parameterization are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a in (1, 2, 3, ... 201)`.
- Queries that access partitioned tables, virtual columns, temporary tables, views, or memory tables are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS`, where `COLUMNS` is a TiDB memory table.
- Queries with hints or bindings are not supported.

After you enable this feature, the optimizer quickly assesses the query. If it does not meet the support conditions for non-prepared plan cache, the query goes through the regular optimization process.

## Performance benefits

> In internal tests, enabling the non-prepared plan cache feature can achieve significant performance benefits in most TP scenarios. However, it also introduces some additional performance overhead, including determining whether the query is supported and parameterizing the query. If this feature cannot support the majority of queries in your workload, enabling it might actually impact performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In internal tests, enabling the non-prepared plan cache feature can achieve significant performance benefits in most TP scenarios. However, it also introduces some additional performance overhead, including determining whether the query is supported and parameterizing the query. If this feature cannot support the majority of queries in your workload, enabling it might actually adversely affect performance.
```

- Queries or plans that are not supported by the [Prepared plan cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md) are also not supported by the non-prepared plan cache.
- Queries that contain complex operators such as `Window` or `Having` are not supported.
- Queries that contain three or more `Join` tables or subqueries are not supported.
- Queries that contain numbers or expressions directly after `ORDER BY` or `GROUP BY` are not supported, such as `ORDER BY 1` and `GROUP BY a+1`. Only `ORDER BY column_name` and `GROUP BY column_name` are supported.
- Queries that filter on columns of `JSON`, `ENUM`, `SET`, or `BIT` type are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE json_col = '{}'`.
- Queries that filter on `NULL` values are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a is NULL`.
- Queries with more than 200 parameters after parameterization are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM t WHERE a in (1, 2, 3, ... 201)`.
- Queries that access partitioned tables, virtual columns, temporary tables, views, or memory tables are not supported, such as `SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS`, where `COLUMNS` is a TiDB memory table.
- Queries with hints or bindings are not supported.

> - DML statements or Select statements with `FOR UPDATE` clause. This restriction can be solved by `set tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache_for_dml=ON`.

Author: ```suggestion
- DML statements or `SELECT` statements with `FOR UPDATE` clause are not supported by default. To remove this restriction, you can execute `SET tidb_enable_non_prepared_plan_cache_for_dml = ON`.
```
@hfxsd PTAL

> After you enable this feature, the optimizer quickly assesses the query. If it does not meet the support conditions for non-prepared plan cache, the query goes through the regular optimization process.

Author: ```suggestion
After you enable this feature, the optimizer quickly evaluates the query. If it does not meet the support conditions for non-prepared plan cache, the query falls back to the regular optimization process.
```
